【系统消息｜2025-10-21 16:30 ET｜收到一封邮件】
【Seeking Alpha】Alphabet Q3 Earnings Preview：Back To Basics

# Alphabet Q3 Earnings Preview: Back To Basics

Oct. 21, 2025 4:17 PM ET |Alphabet Inc. (GOOG) Stock, GOOGL Stock, GOOG:CA Stock
Envision Research
Investing Group Leader

## Summary

Recent deals announced by key AI players signal continued AI demand and a long runway ahead.
Current consensus forecasts, even after recent bullish revisions, underestimate Alphabet Inc.'s growth CAPEX and also EPS growth potential.
I see strong ROCE and cash flow to support better-than-expected growth in key areas like AI, cloud, cybersecurity expansion, and autonomous vehicles.
A discounted cash flow model suggests GOOG's fair value to be $327, well above its current price, offering a significant margin of safety.

I last covered Alphabet Inc. aka Google (GOOG, GOOGL) on Sept 5 in an article titled "Alphabet's Path To $4 Trillion Market Cap In 2027 (Rating Upgrade)." The article was triggered by the outcome of the antitrust ruling, which removed a key concern I had about the stock and led to my Buy rating.

Since then, a few new developments have evolved around this AI frontrunner. In the remainder of this article, I will focus on the top 2 in my view: the large-scale deals key AI players have announced lately and also GOOG's upcoming earnings report (ER). Unless you've been living in a cave, you must have heard the recent deals announced by key AI players involving OpenAI (OPENAI), Nvidia (NVDA), Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), and also Broadcom (AVGO). These deals announced the build-out of AI infrastructure at a massive scale for the next few years.

Under this context, the thesis of this article is to argue A) why I believe current consensus forecasts underestimate GOOG's growth CAPEX potential and, in tandem, its profit growth too, and B) why the shares are trading at a sizable discount shown by a simple discounted free cash flow (FCF) model. To wit, investors are keenly anticipating Alphabet's upcoming ER, scheduled on October 29, 2025, for its FQ3. Analysts set a consensus revenue estimate of $99.96 billion and an EPS estimate of $2.240 per share. The EPS revisions since my last writing have been dominated by upward revisions (27 vs. 13 downward revisions). But as to be detailed next, I believe this bullish sentiment still does not fully capture the company's growth potential.

### Latest Quarter's Earnings

Announce Date: 7/23/2026
EPS Normalized Actual: $2.31 (Beat by $0.11)
EPS GAAP Actual: $2.31 (Beat by $0.12)
Revenue Actual: $96.438 billion
Revenue Surprise: Beat by $2.398 billion

### Upcoming Quarter's Earnings

Announce Date: 10/29/2025 (Post Market)
EPS Normalized Estimate: $2.29
EPS GAAP Estimate: $2.29
Revenue Estimate: $99.968 billion
EPS Revisions (Last 90Dy): 27 up /13 down

## GOOG growth outlook

With the above EPS growth projection for its fiscal Q3, the forecast for the full year 2025 stands around $9.92 per share, translating into an annual growth rate of 23.43%. Looking further out, the long-term forecast suggests some fluctuations in its growth trajectory in the next few years, with the 7-year EPS compound annual growth rate (CAGR) projected at 13.8%.

| Fiscal Period Ending | EPS Estimate | YoY Growth | Forward PE | Low   | High  |
| -------------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ----- | ----- |
| Dec 2025             | 9.92         | 23.43%     | 25.90      | 9.17  | 10.27 |
| Dec 2026             | 10.67        | 7.55%      | 24.08      | 9.60  | 12.09 |
| Dec 2027             | -            | 13.8%      | 21.27      | 10.80 | 13.16 |
| Dec 2028             | 13.71        | 13.48%     | 18.75      | 11.88 | 15.96 |
| Dec 2029             | 16.84        | 22.86%     | 15.26      | 14.23 | 19.27 |
| Dec 2030             | 21.72        | 28.97%     | 11.83      | 19.82 | 23.16 |
| Dec 2031             | 24.59        | 13.20%     | 10.45      | 22.63 | 26.55 |

I believe these projections represent an underestimate of GOOG's growth potential. My method for estimating a company's organic growth rates is detailed in my other articles. So here I will directly quote the end results for GOOG:

The method involves the return on capital employed ("ROCE") and the reinvestment rate ("RR"). The ROCE for GOOG has been around 58.4% in recent years. My estimate for its growth RR is about 27% for the next few years given the AI deals mentioned earlier and assuming GOOG invests to keep pace. With these inputs, GOOG's growth rate would be ~15.8% (27% RR x 58.4% ROCE= 15.8%).

I do see plenty of cash flow and growth opportunities for GOOG to maintain such an aggressive RR for the foreseeable future. The top growth area on my list is in the cloud space, where its Vertex AI platform and Gemini models have been making significant progress to help businesses integrate AI into their operations, from my observation. What's more, the recent acquisition of Wiz further strengthens its cybersecurity offerings, creating opportunities to support multi-cloud computing, which should enjoy a secular increase in demand in my view. Looking at more futuristic opportunities, Waymo, Alphabet's autonomous vehicle division, is scaling rapidly, also judging by the growth of paid passenger trips. This division, admittedly a relatively small earning contributor currently, has nonlinear growth potential to expand into new cities and fundamentally disrupt urban transportation and logistics. In particular, I believe partnerships with companies like Uber and other fleet operators could accelerate the pace of adoption.

### GOOG - Historical ROCE

2014:40.8%；2015:43.1%；2016:54.9%；2017:49.8%；2018:58.1%；2019:49.2%；2020:48.4%；2021:51.6%；2022:48.1%；2023:53.8%；2024:58.2%；2025TTM:Average 58.4%

## GOOG valuation via discounted cash flow

The combination of robust growth and a relatively low valuation multiple has resulted in a sizable discount in my model. In relative terms, the stock is the cheapest among the Mag 7 group in terms of FWD P/E ratio (currently trading at 25.9x). In absolute terms, the stock's current price is also substantially discounted from its fair value as estimated by a simple discounted FCF (DFCF) model as summarized below.

### GOOG - Stage 1 of a 2-stage discounted FCF model

Current FCF: $6.20 per share
Growth rate:15.8%
Discount rate:9.23%

| Year | FCF in next 10 years ($) | Present value of Value ($) |
| ---- | ------------------------ | -------------------------- |
| 1    | 7.18                     | 6.57                       |
| 2    | 8.31                     | 6.96                       |
| 3    | 9.62                     | 7.38                       |
| 4    | 11.14                    | 7.82                       |
| 5    | 12.89                    | 8.29                       |
| 6    | 14.93                    | 8.79                       |
| 7    | 17.28                    | 9.31                       |
| 8    | 20.00                    | 9.87                       |
| 9    | 23.16                    | 10.46                      |
| 10   | 26.81                    | 11.09                      |
| Sum  | -                        | 86.55                      |

### GOOG - Stage 2 of a 2-stage discounted FCF model

Terminal growth rate:5.84%
Stage 2 worth: $327
Total fair value: $327

Here, I used a two-stage DFCF model, with a higher growth rate in the first stage to capture the anticipated AI build-out as aforementioned and a second stage to capture the terminal growth rate. As detailed in my earlier article:

There are a total of 3 key parameters in the 2 -stage DFCF model: the discount rate, the growth rate in stage 1, and the terminal growth rate. For the discount rate, I relied on the so-called WACC, the weighted average cost of the capital model. The discount rate for GOOG is about 9.23% on average in recent years following this model.

For the growth rate in the 1st stage, I plugged in 15.8% based on the arguments presented in the foregoing section. For its terminal growth rates, I assumed a growth RR of 10% (the average of large tech companies), thus leading to a growth rate of ~5.84% (10% RR x 58.4% ROCE =5.84% terminal growth rate). Finally, as for its FCF for the current year, my estimate is $6.2 per share based on my assumption of its CAPEX as aforementioned.

Under these parameters, my estimate of the fair price for GOOG is around $327. In comparison, the stock's current market price is around $253 only, leaving a considerable margin of safety.

## Other risks and final thoughts

In terms of downside risks, near-term results (such as the FQ3 ER) could face temporary margin pressure due to higher CAPEX and R&D expenses. But for the long term, I am optimistic and expect core margin upside due to a variety of factors (such as AI-driven efficiency gains and also synergistic advantages of its various offerings). Deceleration in paid click growth and slower ad growth could also occur as competition dynamics evolve. Leading factors in my mind on this front include A) the competing products that Meta is rolling out to integrate its social media platforms with AI, and also B) the potential of market share gain from ChatGPT in the search market.

My overall conclusion is that the positive catalysts afoot outweigh the above negatives. To recap, I expect GOOG to generate plenty of cash flow to support maintaining aggressive growth CAPEX for the foreseeable future. I believe the current consensus forecasts underestimate Alphabet's growth CAPEX and also EPS growth potential, especially given the recent deals announced by key AI players, which signal continued demand and a long runway ahead. Such an underestimate eventually translates into a large valuation discount and an asymmetric return/risk, leading to a reiteration of my Buy rating.

## More on my IG service

As you can tell, our core style is to provide actionable and unambiguous ideas from our independent research. If you share this investment style, check out Envision Early Retirement. It provides at least six in-depth articles per week on such ideas.

We have helped our members not only to beat the S&P 500 but also to avoid heavy drawdowns despite the extreme volatilities in BOTH the equity AND bond market.

### Max drawdown of our real money portfolio during major market turbulence

| Market Turbulence Period | Our Portfolio | S&P 500 |
| ------------------------ | ------------- | ------- |
| Nov 2007-Feb 2009        | -27.0%        | -51.0%  |
| Jan-Mar 2020             | -19.6%        | -34.0%+ |
| Sept-Oct 2021            | -7.3%         | -10.0%+ |
| 2022 Correction          | -3.0%         | -20.1%  |
| 2025Mar                  | -4.7%         | -9.6%   |

## Analyst's Disclosure

I/we have no stock, option or similar derivative position in any of the companies mentioned, and no plans to initiate any such positions within the next 72 hours. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it (other than from Seeking Alpha). I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.

## Seeking Alpha's Disclosure

Past performance is no guarantee of future results. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. Any views or opinions expressed above may not reflect those of Seeking Alpha as a whole. Seeking Alpha is not a licensed securities dealer, broker or US investment adviser or investment bank. Our analysts are third party authors that include both professional investors and individual investors who may not be licensed or certified by any institute or regulatory body.

注：系统尚未宣布“交易窗口开启”。当前阶段你只能分析，不得下单。
